Hello.
Welcome back.
Let's talk about this calf substitution principle this principle was introduced by person named Barbara
Lipscomb hence the name of the principle.
It defines the objects of a superclass can be replaceable with objects of its subclasses without breaking
the application requires the objects of your subclasses to behave in the same way as the objects of
your superclass methods which use a superclass type must be able to work with a subclass without any
issues.
So has to do with inheritance and basically subclasses have to work with base classes and over and method
of a subclass needs to accept the same input parameter values as a method of the superclass.
Do not implement any stricter validation rules on input parameters than implemented by the parent class.
Sometimes we'll do that with subclasses you'll make a more strict you can't do that in this principle.
Any code that calls this method on the object of the superclass might cause an exception if it gets
called with the object of the subclass these two classes need to almost be the same and work together.
The return value of a method of subclass needs to comply with the same rules as the return value of
the method of superclass.
Getting a theme here.
You can only decide to apply stricter rules by returning a specific subclass of the defined return value
or returning a subset of the valid return values of the superclass and we'll get into an example where
this will make much more sense.
But what this is basically saying is the base and the subclass have to be very very similar.
You don't want to break things you're avoiding breaking things in order to follow this principle.
The subclass has to enhance functionality but not reduce it.
You don't want to break.
So you may have asked yourself well if if the classes are almost the exact same thing why even use it.
Because you can add new functionality you just want to break anything in the base class
so it's in line with what Java also allows a superclass reference can hold a subclass object right.
We know that in Java a superclass of you can be replaced by a subclass any superclass reference any
time.
We know that as well.
Job on inheritance mechanism follows this principle which is exactly what this principle is saying here
on those two sentences you don't break anything right.
The superclass can hold a subclass object the superclass can be replaced by a subclass and nothing breaks.
It's also very closely related to the Single Responsibility Principle and the interface segregation
principle we haven't talked about the interface segregation principle.
But when I go through an example you should see the relation to the Single Responsibility Principle
of a base class has more function in the subclass.
It might not support some of the functionality and that would violate this list cough substitution principle.
It also extends the open closed principle.
We know the open closed principle basically says that a class should be open for extension and closed
for modification.
We override the original class and implement the functionality be changed in the overriding class.
Just like with our example of interfaces the changes happen in the classes that implement the interface.
When the subclass object is used in place of the superclass the override functionality is executed polymorphism.
If you have a reference the superclass.
This is exactly in line with the list cough substitution principle you're not breaking anything in that
base class or in that interface.
Again I would like to take a look at an example in intelligence to demonstrate this principle
so we're gonna bring up until J.
This is going to be a basic example with a vehicle class that's our base class and then we're gonna
have some subclasses car and bus and so forth and we're gonna see how we file this list called substitution
principle.
So we'll name this list coughs substitution
example.
Let's hope I correctly spell it.
OK.
And we're going to create our base class which is named vehicle
so a public class vehicle.
It's gonna have a couple methods.
They're not going to have any implementation.
Basically they're gonna be abstract.
Let's make these abstract so they compile.
I have to add any brackets we could've just put the default behavior but we'll keep it like that.
All right now we're gonna create a couple subclasses we'll create a car class which will extend extend
the vehicle.
This is inheritance we're familiar with this.
We're going to implement while we're going to override but we're not going to actually have any functionality
because we're just demonstrating a principle we've got to do the cubic capacity
and then we'll just add another one to show that we can have additional functionality.
Otherwise it wouldn't be very useful class and we will create our boss class
extends the vehicle.
Notice my inconsistent use of braces here.
I apologize for that but again I know some of you may put in the reviews.
You know he doesn't follow consistent coding standards and all this stuff.
It's not really the intent of what I'm trying to demonstrate.
So I may be a little loose with my braces my coding style my naming conventions try to focus on what
we're learning here which is in this example the lowest cost substitution principle so don't nitpick
me on the necessarily braces.
Not that it's a big deal or you can't nit pick me if you like it's really your prerogative.
Really bothers you.
I guess I guess that's fine.
Hopefully it doesn't bother you but
but definitely does bother some.
I've I've I've read many comments
we're gonna add a another detailed method here just for the boss class get emergency exit location really
just something simple.
OK.
And women too.
Now here is where we want to file the list called principal where we can use the base class interchangeably
with a subclass.
Right.
So following list preferences we should be able to do the following.
We should be able to create a vehicle and we should be able to say new bus right.
We know we do this quite a bit to utilize polymorphism.
We should be able to say vehicle that gets speed.
We then should say vehicle
equals new car
and vehicle
that get you big.
The intelligence isn't working because they don't have it in a method correctly capacity.
Let's also put this in a method
which now we probably can't use
something like that right.
And this is really demonstrating this list called principal indentation is off.
But what you want to notice here is we can assign an object of type Car or type bus to a reference type
of vehicle and we do that quite a bit again with polymorphism but you'll notice that in lines twenty
three and in line twenty five.
All the function in the base class vehicle can be invoked on a reference of type vehicle right.
That's what we're doing here on 24 and 26 These are the lowest cost substitution principle.
It is also possible to invoke methods get speed and get cubic capacity on a vehicle reference which
actually holds a bus or a car right.
Which again is what we're doing here.
The actual objects over an implementation of these methods will be invoked right.
That's all polymorphism.
We'll call these methods.
This is exactly what the list cost Substitution Principle states right subtype objects can replace super
type objects without affecting the functionality inherent in the Super type.
And that's what this is demonstrating.
You see that again let me repeat that subtype objects some type objects bus and car can replace super
type objects vehicle without affecting the functionality inherent in the Super type you're not affecting
this because they're abstract methods.
But even if they weren't.
We could change them and have empty bodies that's loose cost substitution.
Now if that didn't quite sink in.
Let me move back to the slides and just show you another example.
That's a little higher level here let's look at an example of a circle and ellipse all circles are inherently
eclipses with their major minor axes being equal right.
So you see an example here.
Basically you have some inheritance in terms of classes.
Ellipse could be a base class and circle could be a subclass an object of type circle can be assigned
to a reference of type ellipse all the methods in ellipse can be invoked on a circle object one inherent
functionality of any lips is that it is structural.
For example the length of two axes of an ellipse can be changed so we can add methods certain length
of axis X and set length of access y to the Ellipse class
calling any of these two methods on an object of type circle inside of reference of type ellipse would
lead to a circle no longer being a circle right for a circle of length of the major minor axis are equal
and this would be a violation of list coughs substitution principle you're essentially assigning a subtype
object to a super type reference which does not work OK.
So it's really it's may seem more complicated than is it's pretty straightforward.
It just means you can the subclass can change you can add new functionality but we're referring to this
reference type.
You can you know you can only call methods in the base class obviously but you also don't break anything
if you're trying to use the subtype right.
You're signing a subtype object to a super type reference and in this ellipse example that just doesn't
work.
You have to make sure or because in this example settlement of X that the set looks of X Y or only in
the ellipse class which is the base class.
Okay.
Again we'll go through some examples that will demonstrate this principle in design patterns.
Thank you.